>> Scott Moss: So GraphQL versus REST.
So if you've taken the REST course,
you know what REST is.
If not, just try to follow along here, but
REST is a different type of interface for
building APIs, and GraphQL is just
a query language in front of it.
So I just wanna compare the two to
try to give people the differences.
So they're different but they're
actually kinda similar at the same time.
They do similar things but
they do them completely different.
So GraphQL only has one URL, that's it.
Your APIs only gonna have one URL.
There's no more,
create a different path for
every single resource with
the verb combination, that's gone.
That's what REST does.
GraphQL is just one URL and
mostly just one verb,
you'll mostly just do a post
request the whole time.
You can do a get request for queries,
but for mutations which are rights and
updates, you can't really do
a get request, you gotta do post.
So yes most of the times it's gonna be a
post request with one URL, that's it, and
that one URL is capable
of every single thing.
Whereas, like I said,
REST is a resource and a verb combination.
And for every resource you have,
there's multiple routes.
So that's why in REST,
sometimes you'll see a API that's like
/API/V3 cuz they had to version
the URL because they changed the API.
Well, don't have to do that in
GraphQL cuz it's always the same URL.
And you just change the schema.
So you don't have to
version the URLs anymore.
So it kinda gets rid of that.
>> Scott Moss: In REST, the shape and
the size of the data resource
is determined by the server.
So basically what that means is,
when you build your REST server, when you
create those resourceful, those routes for
the resources and
then you create the controllers for them.
What is gonna be sent back from those
controllers is determined by whatever code
you write in those controllers, right.
Whatever you query for the data is
asked what's gonna be sent back.
In GraphQL, the shape and the data and
the size of it is determined by
the request that's coming in.
So whatever request or
query that's being sent to the server,
whatever that's asking for,
that's what the server has to fulfill.
So if a query is only asking for
a user's first name,
it's only gonna resolve the first name.
If it's asking for the first name and
then the last name and
then the ID and then it's favorite
articles and then it's best friend,
then it's gotta resolve all those as well.
So it automatically will do that once
you set all your resolvers and stuff up.
So that's the difference between REST and
GraphQL when it comes to resolving data.
REST is all hard coded, right.
All the controllers and values are hard
coded whereas GraphQL is dynamic.
You have no idea what a query
is going to look like.
You just know that it's gonna stick
to the schema that you created.
And it could be anything.
They can ask for
anything within these bounds.
And your server has to be able to
respond to the different combinations of
the queries that are being sent,
so it's all dynamic.
The data, the shape of data is
dynamically generated at runtime versus
being hard coded like it is in REST,
if that makes sense.
>> Scott Moss: In REST you have to,
no, make,
you have to make multiple API
calls to retrieve relational data.
So, for instance if I have
a user that relates, I'm sorry,
let's say we have author model and
it relates to blog post.
So in the REST model if I wanna get
the author and all of his blog posts,
one I have to make a call to author,
and then get the blog post IDs.
And then grab all those ID's and
make other calls for all of those,
whereas in GraphQL I can do
that in just one request.
I can just say give me the author, and
then fulfill all the blog posts and give
me those and then give me the titles for
those, and resolve that all the way down.
I get all of them in one request
without having to make multiple round
trips with the server.
So that's a big difference there as well
because GraphQL will traverse the query
that's being sent and
proceed to the resolvers to go ahead and
resolve all those fields for you.
And that's why it's called GraphQL,
because it's like a graph.
>> Scott Moss: In REST,
the shape of the response is determined
by whom ever created the server.
And like I said,
in GraphQL it's determined by the query.
So again,
whatever the query is being sent, that's
what the shape of the data is gonna be.
In REST a single request will execute
on the controller in the server.
In GraphQL a request might execute
many resolvers on the server.
So for REST if I say give me the user
with this ID, that's ultimately going to
execute one controller that ultimately
gets this user with this ID.
But in GraphQL if I say give
me the user with this ID,
that could potentially be three resolvers.
You don't know the resolvers yet but
its basically like a controller.
But basically what I'm saying is, you have
no idea how many of those functions on
your server are gonna run, because
it's determined by whatever the query
looks like, and not so
much about what you hard coded.
So again, not only is the data and
the shape gonna be dynamic, but
the functions that run as callbacks to
your request are also gonna be dynamic,
as well, as far as, in what order that
they run and how many of them run.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on this?
Do not expect you to understand
all of this right now.
It's just telling you what
you're about to get into.
>> Speaker 2: The other
thing I'm thinking is that,
that this could be compared
also to like a SQL, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I know SQL is just data,
it's not just data but-
>> Scott Moss: Actually,
you could definitely compare GraphQL
to a query language like SQL because it
is a query language, SQL is a query
language, GraphQL is a query language.
So yeah, you could say GraphQL is
like SQL fr your API, all right.
Instead of being SQL for your databases
it's like SQL for your API, all right.
So yeah, if you did a SQL query it's
a database, you're only gonna get back
what you asked for, all right,
and same thing with GraphQL.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah so,
I've read that GraphQL, there's just one
endpoint whereas with REST there are all
these different endpoints like kind of a-
>> Scott Moss: Yes, there's only,
you're only gonna ever have one endpoint.
There's no point of having
more than one endpoint and
that's because in GraphQL the information
that it needs, it's not so
much in the URL,
it's in the body that you send up.
As you'll see when we
start writing queries,
you're gonna send a query
up to your server.
And that query's the information
that the server needs.
That query has nothing to do with the URL.
It's just a string.
And, like I said, you can encode it.
Like I said,
you can put it in a get request sometimes.
But, when you have to do a mutation,
as in you've got to send variables to the
server, you can't put those in the URL.
So, most of the time
it's just a post request.